Good afternoon Today our guest is Dolyan
Erin Tsen, a representative of the Airat
people or better known under the
Russian name of Kalmykia and a member of the
Airat Congress of the Kalmyk people and the
League of Free Nations. Good afternoon, they
fly Georgia
like me, asking all representatives of other
nationalities how you are
they address us in Ukraine Andrey here is a
polite address How do you use a prefix
how should you address what is polite
simply by name by
representatives of the people in Russia I communicate
on the topic of the Independence of their peoples on the topic of
their history and so I think that if I’m not
mistaken
Or as better known for
Kalmyks from a wide circle because in the Soviet
Union in the Russian Empire they called it the
only Buddhist people in Europe, so
if I’m not mistaken,
can you then tell briefly how, for
example,
your people ended up as part of the
Russian Empire and how they are now moving
towards gaining their Independence,
naturally Russian
presents history  Airat Kalmykov as
such people Here are the Chinese, persecuted
from everywhere And so they came to the shores and
begged
to be accepted into Muscovy then, after all, there was no
Russia, they
fell on their faces and simply asked asked
asked so I would like
such Muscovite
But in reality
Who are the Aerats this
[music]
union of tribes  Arabic who were part of the
Great Mongol Empire,
we have one language, the Mongols
of the past, we
know
that the
Arabic language itself turned out to be
isolated in conservation, this language of ours
has preserved all the grams of
that time when
in the Mongolian language
it disappeared for a minute, the
Russian language is not at all  the one that
existed before and the
Arabic language is the most suitable according to all
the rules and this is recognized by Mongolian
scientists. Old Mongolian turns out this way, you
need to understand that
the Aerots,
even
after the split of the Mongol Empire, the
Dzungar Khanate, if I’m not mistaken, the
connection is lost a little, they conquer
territories,
I can be heard well, the connection was lost a little,
I clarified  or the Dzungar Khanate
was called yes
Yes, the
last Empire that
controlled the territories
even before
[music] the
Caspian Sea
By the way, the Buryats are
peoples and languages ​​related to you, of course the Buryats were
also part of the Aerodian group,
by the way, they have this one, yes, it depends on you,
this is the flag of Ukraine or  these are your
national colors because I know that
you also have yellow and blue This is the flag of Ukraine I
introduce it Everywhere I have been since the
Russian
Federation occupied Crimea this place and the
logs of our Light this is what it
looks like here
Lotus in the middle of
purity the
nobility of love I am here  I see that it seems that
if I’m not mistaken, the Tuvans are also
yellow and blue. Yes, the Buryats also have flag colors
that are common, as if for Mongolia, for the
Mongolian peoples, these are common colors
that
are used in various
decorations
[music]
now this is the population, this is how much
population of the Airats you have now  there
in Russia
you know the last census of the population there
was about 180 thousand in total what
year was it
10 was 16 or something and
you have a capital if
as a rule
And what by the way does this mean the word
city on the sand of the
Caspian Sea it is located
that is, there are oil deposits there are resources there
Moscow takes
not only the resources it takes
[music]
until then the
Kalmyk Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic then it was called was
abolished and divided between the
Astrakhan Stavropol
Rostov regions and but after
rehabilitation the
republic was restored but not in
full, large territories
And these
most fertile richest resources were
simply taken away a little  the fact that they do not
return
under the terms of the rehabilitation agreement they do not
return these they are still cutting back
there are even lands that
do not belong within the Republic
and many do not know about this if you ask them a
question you know about this they will be
surprised to make their eyes big like this is
how Moscow does  whatever the natives want, and
what does it have to do with it, you know, the Russians have
some kind of
quality, they are all these other peoples
who are not Russians, they are somehow squeamish
about the Ukrainians,
if I remember in the Soviet Union, there
were just these jokes about different
nationalities there about Georgians about  Armenians,
Ukrainians about Moldovans, they all became
funny somehow. And I think that
many of your compatriots
were faced with what your compatriots would say
somewhere in Moscow or in St. Petersburg in
unpleasant words.
People from Central Asia in unpleasant
words, yes, that is, they have some kind of
hatred and contempt for all non-Russians,
but how does this
modern Russian Empire work? It takes
conquered peoples and rushes to
conquer new peoples. It turns out that the
Tatars are now Bashkortos and throw them into the war in
Ukraine, that is, firstly, there is a genocide of
these indigenous peoples. And secondly, with
with their help he is trying to conquer a new
territory, that’s how you, by the way, people in
Kalmykia feel about this because I
see that there are many just like
Tatarstan from Bashtan who end up in this
war. And how do the population in general feel about
this
[music] we
need to
kind of remember the stories then  that the Empire
She always acted this way and
for example our people Why
doesn’t it have the same number as the Bashkirs
For example
300 years ago the
Bashkirs were 200 thousand
airats there were 200 thousand now A million
more than a million
why is this happening
used
300 years ago
throughout all this time
they were pumped with propaganda
[music  ] the same thing,
as if instead of
people finding themselves, they gave them
because of this some kind of vile,
disgusting glorification
In the name of the empire, some kind of
abstract
pressure of something But in fact they
destroyed it, it’s just
this It helps them
control small people
For example, in our country  only 200 thousand
in this republic all power structures
are led by Russians
Yes they supervise they
come they are not local they come by
the way Batu Khasikov
our kind of head of the Republic of Kalmykia was
imposed on him from above of course and he was
glad to curry favor he brought from the DPR the former
head of the DPR
songs
of this we
had  a wave of indignation
rallies but unfortunately
everything
died down
with the coronavirus
restrictions, this helped them keep
him in power and now he feels
completely at ease here
[music]
occupies leadership positions, even
gets promoted and also
plays the role of regulatory bodies
that
we have, as it were  is already exceeding the mobilization plan
But this is disgusting and
we recently had such a case, they
took the
mobilized Volzhsky there, they had a fight,
this fight arose against the background of
Airat, he said something bad,
naturally he dragged it and got it there
[music]
who came to sort it out
As they say, this would  energy Yes, the
right direction
[music]
Brave guys
for some reason no one
[music]
mother
or rather artificially created poverty
raising
prices raising the retirement age
this would be energy really in the right
direction Unfortunately,
Propaganda is still even stronger than the
propaganda people
are trying in every possible way to draw the attention of
our fellow countrymen to the fact that
The Empire is destroying us and we are not Russians
we We need to distance ourselves
as quickly as possible otherwise in 20-30 years
it will be too late those native speakers of the shadow
numerous native speakers of the language that
now exist they are leaving every day
soon they will not be at all and
God forbid we will
gain Independence and  we will already
work on the revival of the native language of the
culture of our
mentality, the
Russian mentality simply devours
people
so much that almost
Ayrat
is almost obtained in schools teaching in Russian Yes, of
course, of course,
all the
laws on the voluntary study of the
native language work, of course,
they don’t teach mathematics and physics, they
only need  in Russian, all this has long
disappeared back
in the late sixties, they say there were
still national classes, but at the beginning of the
elementary ones,
by the time I already went to school in my
native language,
now
I saw the
forum of Freedom of Peoples, or rather Free
Russia
Free Russia, where Russian democrats
speak out and say that  they don’t see the
Kremlin’s national policy,
they explain this by the fact that
[music]
national regions,
occupied peoples, do not have authors
who can replace
Dostoevsky. There are Turgenes and so on.
These are the brothers. Yes, of
course, now there are practically no people
who write in their native language.
Well, the reason for this is simply
They pulled out the people's native language by the roots, it
was deportation, then
after the deportation,
using
soft technologies of the
Russian language,
ridiculing those people who speak their
native language, the children were even drunk for speaking
Russian, they were forced to
speak Russian, the
connection was lost, they
generally
called the second one  In India,
literature
was very popular
Yes, the epic is not only an epic But oral
folk art was passed on from
mouth to mouth precisely
[applause]
in such a memorized form Yes, every
Airat had practically a large vocabulary
had a good memory so that every clan,
every village had its own folk
songs are sung songs in general everyone here knew them.
I remember
our grandmother and other neighbors came to her
and they sat singing
such
folk songs called such
drawn-out such beautiful
several grandmothers
listening to them was a
pleasure such as the
beauty of their voice Yes,
even without musical instruments And
so  I’m watching
my feed right now. My entire feed is almost
full on Facebook with
events from Ukraine,
someone is sharing. I’m amazed
when there are
so many songs so beautiful, all
so
positive, motivating, open. There’s
practically none. Looks like
our cultural front
has manifested itself very strongly in this war, and with pictures like this
and masterpieces of some kind
still new yet new dates That’s it And
we all had it all once so
many songs My grandfather is also a
great-uncle
He
wrote songs wrote
music
It was everywhere everywhere And now it’s
all been taken away from us and also with this
And you  so you can, as
completely as you will,
and what is left now is
lucky for all those
who, with the
collapse of the Soviet Union, gained independence,
like Ukraine, Georgia, Kazakhs in general are
developing their national culture, these are
national languages ​​that can develop
only independently, only in
Freedom, conditions of
cultural Freedom, in conditions of
Freedom of Speech
Therefore
we need to
now understand that in Ukraine, Ukrainians
are fighting not only for their own, you are fighting, there is a
Ukraine we
have,
therefore we have the entire body of the Congress and the
Arab
people supporting Ukraine immediately,
almost after the war, the
Congress
protested against the
aggression of the war, for which the
activists were
subject to repression, persecution, and
some succeeded
escape migrated other countries well,
here we of course are not staying on
the side somehow trying to get together to
consolidate moreover we are
establishing connections with the national
liberation movement of other peoples of
Bashkiria
and
perhaps someone is watching
this video now please join
in the action we are more and more
and there are more and more of us  and they say more
Let's fight for our and your freedom
Well, I'll say this when I raised
questions about the fact that Russia will collapse
because it is logical that the Empire is not
collapsing, so historically it began to
collapse in 917, continued in 1991 with the
collapse of the Soviet Union and is now
under the influence  this war that
Putin said that he will lose will be the
disintegration of the Russian Empire into
national states, but this is what
I noticed when some
Russians joined with representatives of different
nations, some of them do not believe in their
independence. The Empire imposed some kind of
second-class status that you cannot do yourself.
I’m saying, for example, there are
several million Bashkords there and that’s
200 thousand of you, but I’m giving examples
Iceland
Iceland A small country on an island with a
population of 300 thousand, but their GDP per
capita is higher than in Russia, but for some
reason small Iceland where,
in fact, there is no fishing
they can do this on a large scale and
not connected with the main continent, they
can live well, and people in
Russia who are representatives of the
same nations, for example, some don’t
believe in the airat. If you have oil, you have
other resources. You have access to the
Caspian Sea, you have this.  trade
routes between east and west are huge, that
is, and people need to convey this that
there are examples of small states in
Europe that live cool, live and
develop, that’s how things are with you. You have
some kind of economic development there, you have
studied it, you
are promoting among your own people that Moscow
is taking our resources  therefore, we are poor,
of course, the empire
is
precisely the
points of the people Yes,
small peoples
use meat, use their resources and
constantly dominates them and enjoys
these are
inferiority complexes, complexes that
you are
only capable of
[music]
teach and so on,
naturally
many are
susceptible to this
propaganda and really perceives it
Yes, well, we don’t seem to have
factories
Why not, no
one has thought about it
for 300 years
Can’t people really have something there, we
had dairy
republics We have livestock farming,
we don’t have a place for factories, despite the fact that we
were
practically in  in every region
now there are no
factories for the production of fishing
industry, that is, in the Russian
regions and on the Volga we lived in
the Caspian Sea, yes.
And where does all this go? The
fact is that this situation is created
artificially in order to
keep the regions of the
occupied countries
dependent on the Kremlin and of course it’s
easier for them  it’s easier to manage this way, use
their
workforce, use military
people, of course
[music]
Yakutia is
potentially the richest country in the world,
not that
Yakutia mines diamonds and lives in poverty, yes.
And in Buryatia,
almost the entire periodic table
could not live,
and the population there is not so large  and there are a
lot of resources in the territory, and that’s
exactly the case here, too, in Kalmykia
Kalmykia is a country of a
republic with a territory larger than Georgia,
five million people live in Georgia,
we have only
300 thousand [
music]
enterprises can be created in any practically any
direction of
oil refining
of any Yes, we don’t have forests and what will you
buy now  forest, yes, metal and iron come from somewhere,
but now where do you come from, the
metal
doesn’t bring us for free, no one is
free. People work, people travel, they also
buy there, they come here, they sell, it’s
all a
principle of economy,
it works everywhere, especially since the
Republic of Kalmykia is strategically
located, it’s very advantageous,
it’s a connection bundle  The Caucasus and the
North to the West and the East
in general, it’s
so good as a husband that people don’t even
realize that’s the point, you know,
their inferiority is being imposed on people
without a king, without that everything comes from there, you
know, like I saw in poor
villages, for example, a deputy comes
He will give some handouts to the grandmothers there and they are
already happy, but they don’t understand that it is
their money. He distributes those that go to the
State Treasury, absolutely the
same thing, the federal budget takes away
huge resources and then the Federal
Center, you know how, gives handouts and they
call you these like  these are budgetary
on budgetary remote regions.
When I saw that Bashkortostan is
3 percent, if I’m not mistaken, I looked at
Russian statistics
and at the same time this is an organizational region. That
is, how how because they think so, they
leave taxes there for salaries in the
republics Yes, analogies, federal ones
take away the federal budget so theirs  doesn’t
consider it as a republic. You see, you’re a
subsidized region because you
didn’t get enough of the taxes that we left for you,
and now we
’ll give you the federal center from the Barsky shoulder and people are a person
who doesn’t understand
economics, he’s looking at it. Well, we won’t survive
everything like  -then free countries survive, let’s take
the same Europe Yes, Yugoslavia was there, Slovenia is now
there Croatia lives
normally, Croatia is developing huge
beaches, huge tourist potential and
therefore it seems to me that yes, we must
inform all people, including those who
will watch us, distribute these
videos because  that people need to be woken up
if we want people to take it and
change, but we won’t change people until
we change in their heads. It’s very
good that we hold meetings like this
to explain because many people don’t
think about it or somehow don’t find
answers to  your questions and by the way
thank you for taking the time
to talk so I think if anyone else
has questions yes You can write in the
comments under the video so I think that
our bone
I will give him a link to the video if he has an
interesting question he will be happy  will answer
like this, you could leave comments
because especially for us Ukrainians,
as if I always cite when the
Soviet Union was in Europe, America
perceived everyone who was Russian Russian
Also now there are a lot of people there in
Ukraine in Europe of all In Russia too
Russian Russia there are
bashcords Many even  haven’t heard about
such peoples but occupy vast
territories
Yes yes
Now I am
And when you ask me a question
Where am I from? The
Republic of Kalmykia
is straining
Russia
occupied Russia
[music]
[laughter]
many of them are good people, kind
people, sympathetic and understanding  people and
knows that they are
committing a crime,
I
have many friends Yes, too, again, but you
need to
separate and be able to separate the
Russian world and just Russian people. What
is the Russian world? You are an ideology that [
music] is
overgrown with the Kremlin,
created by the Kremlin, then
it is everywhere  this one promotes pushes
along with culture along
with all the
paraphernalia
Okay, are you reading Pushkin Dostoevsky,
how good are you now in soul,
thoughts, to correspond to
just the
title of a person, how much more humane are you? If you, for example,
condemn this war.
and you protest,
write posts, talk to people. Yes,
of course,
going out there to protest
all the time is a great feat on the one
hand,
because everyone knows that
repression is inevitable. If you go out on
the road, you will be imprisoned. Yes, of course, this is
fraught with some consequences. However,
let’s remember the Maidan Euro Maidan  14
years ago, when
people from all over Ukraine came to Kiev
to defend
their independence, they
set up tents there, burned these tires, and
spent the night not just for one day, but for several
months. And it started in the winter when the
frost was 20 degrees, what is the spirit of the
Ukrainian people, and
now what do we see?  People are against war,
someone doesn’t want to fight and they run,
run in different directions
in Georgia, they run in Kazakhstan,
again,
immigration is like that. It’s a lot of stress,
a lot of stress on the body, you need to
spend several days in line.
Spend
700 thousand, it seems like 700
thousand of these have already left  Yes, there is more than one of them in Moscow on the square.
You know what else is the problem
because they are all running alone Every man
for himself, the Empire has taken away from these
people the sense of collectivity, the feeling that here
they are One for all and all over again
Ukrainians,
we have a national liberation
movement  were there all the time, that is, this is
cohesion and here it turns out They are running to
run, they can, he is running himself with
his child, for example, and with his wife. So
they are running like a family, a unit of society, but
they can no longer coordinate with ten families there to defend their interests.  we need to somehow
rethink, I don’t even know,
and then they may begin to unite into
some groups, yes, it
really
makes you think and raises many
questions why this is happening. Why,
naturally, I have one question: The
Empire already, as it were, the system works
so
well for the Empire
in  people, she
sat down with a complex Select fears,
this is my hut on the edge, I’m better off than mine
Yes,
and I’m often reproached
myself You left and
ran away Well, yes
Because I
don’t believe the people who say We’ll
support you there
now our activist has been sitting with us for
several years now  trials over him have passed, he is still
collecting
cases from the free ulus, the channel
that I run on telegram,
he is incriminated by the administration, the
free man
has nothing to do with the free man,
he is just a
previous work
person, a literate person,
notes that people drew on, he
criticized the same Khasikov, the
chairmen of the There Khurals, and so on
our fields, that’s why they are
taking revenge on him and want to do
that he has two children, a wife, an
elderly mother,
he faces 10 years
The most popular
article on fakes
that I look for on my sick moose
and that’s
who supports him no one goes to
rallies no one goes to pickets
with words  freedom
and I know that if
they had grabbed me then
[music]
I would have simply died;
for me, spending
a couple of months in prison is just death.
You
left, you are waging a political struggle,
this is very correct. That is, you are part of
this congress of the Iraqi people, you
are waging  informational Enlightenment That
is, it will not just be found there,
an emigrant left there,
went to work and scored, you continue
your political struggle, but just like
we had, that the
Ukrainian immigration also waged a
political struggle, broadcast some
now from the Telegram channel you can conduct and
people
read it there before  I had to
print there in Europe in immigration,
underground newspapers were transmitted through different
communication channels,
there was a collective organization. It was an
organization of Ukrainian
nationalists that fought for the
independence of Ukraine. I understand
that yes, it’s problematic that there are no such
united organizations and Well, at
this stage, the
most  dates As it is in Russian, the
consciousness of this Kalmyk
people is so people have not yet matured to the
fact that they need to unite and protect
their interests, but I always say
everything will change very quickly Because
if we look at the Soviet Union who
believed in the late 80s what is there  In a
couple of years, the Soviet Union will collapse If
someone said they looked at him like he was a
fool, they said,
and then it fell apart literally in a
matter of months and people started
demonstrating and here it will be the same thing The
Empire is still strong, everyone is sitting as soon
as now the Empire is already shaking
due to the fact that it is losing in Ukraine,
some decentralization movements have already begun
in Russia; they will
accelerate and we will see in just a couple of
months how everything will change and how
these
leaders of the republics and all these
deputies and people will begin to speak differently
and those who were sent to war, I believe
that the Russian Empire
will crumble very quickly, but our task is to shake it
so that it crumbles even faster,
we were waiting for some moment because
every day there, every month of
the existence of this empire, there are dead
people in Ukraine and dead  people in
Russia are the months of genocide of their own and
foreign people
Yes, you are right. I support
every word you say and
again I want to remind people,
first of all, our fellow countrymen, we of the
Tandyr people are not just sitting here
and not waiting for
manna from heaven, we are trying to help the
Ukrainian people and trying to help
our people  we are trying to unite
national movements passed
[music]
this is the decision of the
Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on the recognition
[music]
department of bathing the
indigenous peoples
occupied by Moscow
this is the first step of
liberation and now
Naturally, with the help of Ukraine we will
already
turn to other Western countries so that
they  also supported
first of all
because we strive, we appeal,
we establish contacts with politicians with
deputies of the Supreme Rana
and
the saints of the
Baltic parties, these are Estonia,
these are the countries that, along with Ukraine, have
also been subjected to
many years of
[music]
genocide
repression and they know what it is, that’s why
they support Ukraine
if the Russian world comes,
then again the death of people, genocide of people is
inevitable, they do not come to
build a better society there, but to
destroy it, as is happening in Ukraine,
and everyone should understand
what it is. Don’t watch this Russian
news, watch YouTube Watch the video
from the first channel
Andrey, I don’t care, there are many different
channels that tell the truth and these are not
some kind of
director’s productions, ordinary conversations like
that, so I
thank you for inviting
me and I am very grateful to you for
taking the time to convey my thoughts to people
because I always say so, she will watch us
conditionally 10,000,
100 may have something stuck in their heads
and 10 will begin to act and this will already
change the world
and let’s finally say that you would like to
wish the Ukrainians and people in Russia,
including your compatriot
Airat, to the
Ukrainians I can only wish Victory,
of course this is the first TO  What is necessary
Victory complete
defeat
You have already done so even in the first
days of the war for
two or three days it was already clear what I remember
One of my comrades said
came to me and they said He says you
understand says Ukraine
I didn’t argue with him just about  they
will think themselves Well, the West may be publishing it,
but will the Ukrainians agree because these are the
events that I spoke
about the Maidan, how people
came unitedly and fought for their
independence And now there is a war and
what kind of Solidarity is being shown by the whole country,
from young to old, children are collecting
money by selling something  that they also made their
bracelets
here in France, everyone
supports Ukraine, we
regularly, almost every month,
collect some kind of
food, take it to collection points and I see
how much is collected there,
not just me, it’s a lot of the
whole city, and so in every city there is
humanitarian
and military aid  I
would like it to be
more, more help, more
like a weapon. I want them to
finally give
offensive weapons, not just
defensive ones. It
will support the army, make it more
effective, but even now the
Russian army is
no good. You have dispelled the myth
about this
invincible and great one.
You are doing a great job
for the rest
of yours.  fellow countrymen I want to say Many of
them are
subject to
propaganda and somehow support Yes, but by
supporting the Russian Empire
you are thereby expressing
but
[music]
among my comrades I also have
comrades-in-arms, including the congress,
many people who stayed there, we
are doing
educational work,
please continue  we must
fight
for our and your freedom
Thank you, we had
duel Eren Tsen Chen as a guest today of the Congress, a number of the
Kalmyk people and a member of the League of Free
Nations, thank you so much, I also
always ask, we have
greetings, words to Ukraine Heroes Glory, but here’s
how
there is some-  then the slogan is how you communicate, you
welcome
But usually it’s
a slogan that
motivates everyone This is
Olengut
Uralamite
Uralanke forward
this has transformed Because they
used to speak
Arabic
also Kalmyk is not Kalmyk And according to the Kalmyk hillyk of the Urals
we will end on this positive note
I think we will still do
meetings from  representatives and further
representatives of different peoples of Russia
who are fighting for their
independence and we will have a conversation with you again
because I believe that we
must convey the truth through the
veil of these television channels
that
throw up this dust of the Russian world. So
we will know we are coming to  dirty
room our work is very hard but
we have to clean and we will polish everything
thank you good bye